Alright! In this video, we are going to look
at getting MySQL installed on CentOS.
I picked CentOS, as an example because
that is, some people would say Cent OS
because it is a fedora based Linux
distribution. So, it's going to cover a lot
of different ground, a lot of variants
come from that. Ubuntu is also at
Debian. So, two of the primary Linux
families of distributions. So, hopefully
give you two good examples here. But the
Fedora uses a different package manager
commonly called 'yum'. The first thing
that we want to do is come in here and
do a yum update. If you're not signed
in as root, you will need to run sudo
prior to that. So, while that's going, this is
just going to go out and get the system
updated. What's important is I'm
logged in as root here. That does have
some risk with it, but you also need to
be either as root or as a user account
that has sudo access. So, a lot of times,
I'll log in as that and then I'll do a
sudo su to go ahead and switch over to
root. Then, I can just run all my
commands without having to prefix them
with the prefix of sudo. So, I'm going to
pause the video. That's taking a couple
seconds longer than I thought it would.
I am going to come back once these
updates have completed. Okay, I fast
forwarded while that was downloading and
skipped ahead a little bit, so I didn't
touch anything else there. So now, the
system is updated. I'm going to run a
command called 'clear' to clear the screen.
So, I get back up towards the top. Make it
a little easier. I knew. I hope. Now, the
next thing that we want to do is install
a utility called 'wget'. This allows us to
download things from the command line.
That's asking to do we want install it.
Now, if you've had your CentOS system for
a while, chances are you already
installed this. I don't know why they
don't actually install that just by
default because everybody it's like one
of the first things that they do. So, we
can see that this got installed okay. I'm
going to clear again.
Now, I'm going to do a wget,
and this is a URL that I've copied off a
link for the MySQL repositories. Be sure
that you get the right URL for your
release. That is important. If you
don't, you will have problems. So, we can
see that went through and is happy.
Now, I need to run a command  rpm- ivh. So,
it's basically going to port this into our
local repositories so the installer knows
about it, and that's all we need to do. So,
that is installed. Now, I've seen some
recommendations where it's a good idea
to do a yum update again. Just see if
anything is out there. So, it actually did
find a couple things, so let's go ahead
and clear that. And then finally, we need
to do a yum install mysql server. You
can see it went out and looked at all
this dependencies. It's going to install.
Just say yes. So now, it's going to go out to the
internet, download all the stuff
over to a bunch of perls start scrolling
by. I'm going to pause this while this is
downloading and i will resume the script
in a second. Okay. You can see that I'm
getting a prompt here about a gpg file.
I'm going to say yes. So, saying that it's
good and it's going to continue downloading
things. I'm going to pause the video one
more time. Okay, now you can see that I
have a complete down at the bottom there
and everything has installed normally. No
error messages. Make sure that you don't
have a errors. If you do run into a
problem here, I'm going to guess, you
probably grabbed the wrong URL for the
yum install, so double-check that. So, I'm
going to go ahead and do clear. Okay. Now, we
can go ahead and start up MySQL. You know,
system control start mysqld.
That's where the daemon process.
That's going to take a second. Start.
Now, we can also come in and do a
status.
Now, you can see that MySQL is up and
running normally, so that is what is
required to get MySQL installed. In
an upcoming video, we're going to look at
connecting to it clear. So, I just did a
ps- ef  | grep mysqld. So, we can see
that MySQL daemon is in fact running
out of the system. So, everything is good.
Like I said in an upcoming video, we are
going to go ahead and learn how to
connect to MySQL and start working with
it.